TitreCours: International Economic Environment
DescriptionCours: In an environment where economic exchanges are increasingly global, it is important for business managers, investors and policy-makers to possess a basic understanding of the world economy in terms of its institutions, agents, dynamics and major challenges.  &nbsp;  Objectives:   Introduce students to the economic and political realities of the world economy;  Familiarize students with basic concepts and tools of economic analysis in order to enable them to understand current and future issues affecting the world economy;  Teach students to develop their own arguments about events and issues taking place in the international economic environment.  &nbsp;  The course is primarily lecture based. However, class participation by students is not only encouraged but essential for an optimal learning experience. Students should not hesitate to share questions, facts, experiences as well as (well-argued) opinions with their fellow classmates and the instructor.  &nbsp; Learning Strategy: &nbsp;  The learning approach is simultaneously analytical, descriptive, comparative and historical. It is analytical because without definitions, concepts and theories it is not possible to make sense of general patterns and dynamics taking place in the world economy. It is descriptive because basic factual knowledge is necessary to assess the value of concepts and theoretical approaches. It is comparative because an examination of the similarities and differences between economic and political structures, institutions and agents provides a better understanding of the factors affecting the patterns and dynamics of the international economic environment. Finally, it is historical because the weight of the past plays a crucial role in constraining economic and political behaviour in contemporary societies.  Exams will cover both readings and class presentations. Moreover, students are strongly encouraged to keep up with current events in the international political economy by reading some of the following newspapers and magazines: Courrier international, The Economist, Far Eastern Economic Review, Financial Times, Foreign Affairs, Foreign Policy, International Herald Tribune, Le Monde, Le Monde diplomatique, New York Times and Problemes economiques. Exam questions are often based on current events and issues in the international economic environment.  &nbsp;  Evaluation:  Participation (10%)  Team Project (30%) : &nbsp;(Written paper 20%, oral presentation 10%)  Mid-term exam (25%)  Final exam (35%)
