TitreCours: Ethics and Management
DescriptionCours: As proposed by philosopher Charles Taylor, our time is characterized by greatness and misery. The efficiency of our technologies, our organizations and our management practices allowed a gigantic progress and an increase in richness in many countries. This progress however generated major problems in terms of human dignity, social justice, working conditions, access to employment, distribution of richness, technological risks and ecological viability. Since the organizations and their modes of management have considerable effects on our human and natural world, it is imperative to develop an important ethical reflection and to entitle managers to encourage ethical decisions and activities in their organization.  &nbsp;  This requirement corresponds to multiple reasons, expressed in organisations by very diverse people: employees, professionals, managers or leaders. These reasons include the will to update deep values at work, the need for discovering new reference marks in a pluralist and complex world or the need to find direction and sense after the emergence of scandals and crises in the past years. These reasons also include the will to respect the legal framework, the strategic need to develop legitimacy and good corporative reputation, the requirement to stimulate the engagement of the people or the need for ensuring the performance of the organizations in a global world where the exchanges between people of various cultures, values and religions multiply.  &nbsp;  At a practical level, in organization, many people seek reference marks and practices so that their decisions and their organization are at the same time more powerful and ethical. Is it necessary to write a code of ethics? Engage an ombudsman? Write a statement of values? What is the role of the leaders? Should a social accounting be instituted? Environmental? Should a program of corporative responsibility be developed? Is it necessary to reinforce the capacity and the control of the board of directors? Offer training programs? Name a new vice-president? Change the governance approach? This research is also present in the society in general, as that is to direct the governance of a State or to guide the consumer behaviour of a person. Unfortunately, the approaches available in the field of ethics are often fragmented or too sophisticated. The establishment of codes of ethics, currently a very popular practice in organizations, is an example of fragmentation when proposed as a miraculous formula. In the same way, many approaches in business ethics are moralistic or reduced to an operation of corporative image and social homogenisation. Contrarily, other approaches require to evaluate hundreds of criteria or to have graduated studies in moral philosophy, which is impossible for the majority of the managers.  &nbsp;  In this course, we assist future managers to develop an integral ethics. This integral ethics includes four fields that are interconnected, but often truncated in the exercise of management: the personal sense of the individuals and their deep aspirations; their physical reality and their behaviours with others; management tools and practices used in organization; and encouraged values and attitudes.
