TitreCours: International Management
DescriptionCours: The international context in which we actually live has, over the last years, largely modified the management practices of companies of all sizes. Many feel this is only the beginning. More than ever, since the September 11 events and following a succession of G-8 or G-20 animated meetings, pressures around the world are growing to force a thorough analysis of globalization issues. The recent Seattle, Quebec or Italian sessions of discussion of WTO members or the different globalization or anti-globalization forums invite all managers to better understand the critical issues of internationalizing business around the World.&nbsp;  &nbsp;  In an era where national borders are slowly disappearing to leave way to larger regional areas or to global practices, either as a result of political decisions or the fast pace development and adoption of new information and communication technologies, politicians are more than ever preoccupied by the control of the economic development of their countries torn between local and global tensions. As for national or international institutions, they have to face the emergence of giant corporations that often question the need, roles and priorities of national governments.  &nbsp;  Managers now have to sort out new words often used without much attention to their actual meaning: internationalization, globalization, multinational corporations, multidomestic companies, integrated multinationals, transnational corporations. Today one has to clearly see the differences between these international business concepts.  &nbsp;  This international business course has been developed in order to help managers analyse the major constraints that corporations of all sizes have to face to grow in an always more international environment. It seeks, in its first part, to enable students to better understand the actual context of international business and then to develop an integrated model to analyse the major growth problems and solutions of companies doing business in international environments. To do so we will, in a second part, identify the main strategic drivers that corporations have to analyze and use in a globalizing environment. Lastly, in the third and last part of the course, we will spend much time analyzing the classic strategy and structure configurations developed by multinational corporations over the last century in order to face their internationalization challenges. We believe this is the best way to understand the problems smaller corporations will have to face in order to survive in a globalizing environment.  &nbsp;  The following themes and perspectives will be developed:  &nbsp;  The point of views of international corporations and national governments facing either the globalization or regionalization of their markets.  Risk management solutions in order to adress the complexity of the international economy and the conflicting objectives of governments and corporations in developing the international business environment.  Entry mode options and organizational solutions to support the internationalization objectives of corporations.  &nbsp;  The key management problems faced by most of the classic functional areas of companies (marketing, operations and logistics and human resources management)  The intercultural and ethical dilemmas faced by corporations operating in an international arena.&nbsp;&nbsp;  &nbsp;  Objectives&nbsp;  &nbsp;  1. To sensitize students to the specific difficulties of international management by studying the key conflicts arising between states and corporations and the influence of cross cultural management issues.  &nbsp;  2. Provide students with the capacity to evaluate the different internationalization solutions and to chose the most adequate management solutions to face the different risks and difficulties of international management.  &nbsp;  3. Bring students to understand the specificities of organizing activities and managing a corporation at an international level.  &nbsp;  Learning strategy &nbsp;  &nbsp;  The international management course rests on two key learning tools : readings to be completed before coming to class to prepare for the instructor's lectures designed to explore and explain the fundamental concepts of each session; cases and exercices to prepare in order to have rich class discussions.  &nbsp;  As is the case in many last university year courses, sessions have to be prepared by students before cominf to class. Readings have to be completed and cases have to be prepared preferably by small discussion teams. The more students invest in preparing the sessions, the more they will learn from the course.  &nbsp;  Please take note that the instructor's Power Point presentations WILL NOT BE AVAILABLE BEFORE CLASSES, forcing each student to take his or her own personal notes which should help in preparing the final exam. The session's power points will only be available at the end of each week, after the french session will have been offered.  &nbsp;  Evaluation  &nbsp;  In order to reach the learning objectives of the course, the students evaluation will rest on three items:  &nbsp;  Oral contribution : 15%  Team Assignment : 30%  Final Exam : 55%  &nbsp;  Like all courses using the case approach, the contribution score will reward the quality, the level (enough and not to much) and the appropiateness of students interventions over all the sessions of the term. To get a good grade, students obviously have to be present in class, be prepared and they must contribute in a balanced way to class discussions. The grade can range from Fail to A+, like all other evaluation means. In order to facilitate weekly grading by the professor, students have to send either a picture or any other significant drawing by e-mail after session one and always place in front of their them in class a readable name tag.  &nbsp;  Students will also have to form a team as multicultural and multinational as possible in order to complete over their term assignment, a study of a pre-approved multinational corporation. Teams of five students must be formed and submitted to the professor for approval before the third session. They&nbsp; will then be allowed to select the multinational corporation to study. Research instructions and work protocol will be available on the web site after session three.  &nbsp;  The final exam will cover all the material covered during the whole term. Il will measure the level of understanding students will have developed from the readings, case preparations, presentations and discussions in class. The exam will be written without access to ay documents or notes, and should combine both closed (True and False) and opened questions.
