TitreCours: Strategic Management in Organizations
DescriptionCours: Course Overview  &nbsp;  This course integrates knowledge and skills developed during the BAA. Strategic management enables companies to resolve complex problems that they face in competitive economic environments. The course is anchored in a multi-disciplinary approach to management, and aims to integrate the concepts and practices of different functional areas in the resolution of strategic problems. The structure of the course, its readings and case studies are designed to improve understanding of the nature of strategic activity, and to reinforce knowledge about organizational change in different contexts.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;  &nbsp;  Objectives  &nbsp;  This course has the following specific objectives:   To develop a global understanding of the enterprise and the problems of strategic management in a complex environment;&nbsp;  To integrate functional and managerial knowledge into the analysis and resolution of strategic problems;&nbsp;  To develop a capability of using strategic models and tools in diverse organizational contexts;&nbsp;  To link knowledge acquired in the BAA with business realities;&nbsp;  To participate, direct and exercise leadership in a multi-functional and, if possible, multi-cultural work team;&nbsp;  To reinforce synthesis skills, which are indispensable in the practice of Management.&nbsp; &nbsp;  &nbsp;  Approach TO LEARNING  &nbsp;  This course aims to create a transition between your education and training, and the practice of management in an enterprise. It will permit you to develop the perspectives and skills that reinforce your capacity to make connections between different elements of knowledge that you have acquired and to put them into action. In order to help you accomplish this, the course focuses on the analysis of strategic problems that you will have to resolve. Working in a multi-functional and, if possible, multi-cultural team, you will analyze situations using your own expertise and, at the same time, you will learn to tap into the expertise of your colleagues specialized in other functional areas and will have an opportunity to constantly contrast your point of view against those of your colleagues.  &nbsp;  The course is comprised of three parts. The first will introduce you to concepts that will enable you to conduct strategic diagnostics . The second part focuses on implementation and discusses the contributions of different functional areas in the realization of strategy. The third part is dedicated to strategic choices and presents diverse directions and options of corporate development as well as their respective advantages and limits.  &nbsp;  The course is based on active learning in the resolution of complex strategic problems&nbsp;through case analyses, a strategic simulation, practical exercises, and a group project.  &nbsp;  Two major group projects will be realised during the session: a strategic simulation exercise and a strategic analysis of an organization.  &nbsp;  Strategic simulation : In the second part of the course that is dedicated to strategy implementation, a complex computerized simulation exercise, Globstrat, will permit to develop integration capabilities of the multiple organisational functions. Each team of 5 participants will be in charge of direction of an organization involved in manufacturing and marketing of the screens. With the aim of winning over 8 competitors, the direction team will have to formulate a strategy covering a 6-year time frame and to implement this strategy through a set of functional strategies. As managers, you will have to realise the formulated strategy by making decisions in each organisational function (finance, human resources, marketing, production, etc.). To do so, top managers will need to use management tools such as budgeting, controlling results and resource allocation among different functional areas of the organisation.&nbsp;  &nbsp;  Strategic Analysis in Action : The group project "&nbsp;Strategic Analysis in Action&nbsp;" (SAA) will serve as a path to the third part of the course but will start early in the session. At the beginning of the course, your professor will present you with an industrial sector that your group will study. As a team, you will undertake strategic analysis of a company that is part of this industry. Some teams will examine suppliers and distributors in the industry, while others will choose to study competitors or customers of different sizes. Given that the purpose of the exercise is to expose you to a concrete and real strategic context, you absolutely have to meet people from the company that you are studying. Throughout the session, questions, analytical frameworks, tools that can be applied to different topics that are covered will be suggested to you to help you undertake this work. In addition, during one session, you will have the opportunity to meet with an expert who will discuss the key issues in the sector that you are studying. The final session will be dedicated to a presentation of the work of your team.  &nbsp;   Two more learning approaches are used in this course:  &nbsp;  Case analysis : Some classes are based on case studies that illustrate a problem of strategic management in a specific context. Some cases emphasize your analytical capabilities while others draw on your decision-making skills. The case discussions will use role plays, team work, and taking positions that you will present to your colleagues. It is essential to have read and prepared the case before arriving in class.  &nbsp;  Practical exercises : There will be questions or problems to resolve that require research and information-sharing on a subject given to you at the beginning of the course (example: how to evaluate a generic strategy of a company on the basis of a newspaper article). These practical in-class exercises aim to bring students into contact with current business issues.
