TitreCours: Management Simulation
DescriptionCours: This course is designed to introduce you to the basic managerial issues facing busi-nesses, of both the private and the public sectors, at the beginning of the 21st century A.D.  &nbsp;  The course bypasses the traditional management framework, such as the planning, or-ganizing, directing, controlling, framework developed by such people as Fayol in the early times of this century. Rather, it focuses immediately on the important issues of strategy-based man-agement. Simple, technical issues such as planning will be addressed during the case studies, and the simulation, around which the course is designed.  &nbsp;  The important knowledge, skills and attitudes, which will be targeted in this course, are intended to favor:  &nbsp;   Developing a broad perspective on business dynamics and facilitating the under-standing of issues related to managing an organization as a whole;  Understanding the issues related to coordinating and integrating the various ac-tivities of an organization;  Experimenting, through decision-making, both the specific contributions and the interdependencies of the various functions within the firm;  Practicing the actual business of managing. Through a complex business simula-tion, sharing and assuming in teams the making of consistent decisions, to win in the short run and be better off in the long run.  &nbsp;  The basic concepts, which are the backbone of this course are:  &nbsp;   The nature of organization;  The manager's roles and competencies;  Strategy as a walking stick: An introduction;  Strategy analyses and formation.  &nbsp;  The course uses a variety of pedagogical tools and methods. In particular, we shall use three important ways to address the issues mentioned:  &nbsp;   A business simulation;  Articles and texts, relevant to the issues addressed;  Case studies if time allows.  &nbsp;  The participants to the course have to devote a significant amount of time to preparation. In particular, they should read and prepare any cases, and theoretical texts, if specifically as-signed by the professor. The class is intended to discuss the concepts, rather than expose them and to use the knowledge thus developed to understand real life issues before developing a relevant and realistic action plan.  &nbsp;  This course initiates the entire program and is intended to integrate a priori the various learnings of the program. It will be complemented by the STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT COURSES, which will be given later in the program to provide more structured integration tools and discuss their practical uses. The strategy-based courses have been designed as a set.  &nbsp;
