TitreCours: Global Marketing
DescriptionCours: To sustain growth and profits and successfully weather the global economic turnover, it is crucial for firms to consider international development a strategic priority.  &nbsp;  Domestic markets are saturated. Major manufacturers and service providers must seek market opportunities abroad. Obviously, such opportunities do exist. They are huge. Just think of the Asian market, the European Community and South America.  &nbsp;  The sky is the limit as long as managers are both sensitive to different cultures and are willing to adapt accordingly.  &nbsp;  Globalization does not mean providing the same products and services to respond to the same needs across borders and continents. Nobody is educating anybody. To quote Akio Morita, Honorific Chairman of Sony Worldwide Corporation, you have to think globally and act locally, because America is not Japan, and vice versa.  &nbsp;  Studies show that companies that pursue (real) global strategies perform better than those that do not. This golden rule applies equally well to countries' competitiveness.  &nbsp;  Globalization also means that competition is intensifying, which heightens the risk of commoditization. Don't be surprised to find foreign competitors all over your backyard. Price-only markets are developing and margins are shrinking. You can look at globalization as an opportunity or as a threat. But, as a decision maker, you must deal with it. You simply have no choice.  &nbsp;  The challenge is how to unlock customer value across countries and comfort margins. The stakes are high.  &nbsp;  Domestic strategies must be overhauled. To deal with extreme complexity, new approaches, new principles and sometimes very new concepts and models of marketing planning are required.  &nbsp;  Companies are looking for students with high "IQs" (International Quotients). They must be able to adapt quickly to new cultures, and to develop pertinent international marketing strategies.  &nbsp;  The MBA students at HEC Montreal should increase their sensitivity to different market environments and different cultures. Many of our students are foreigners. It is time to capitalize on this advantage and cross-share ideas, approaches and decision making processes to help us understand "other" ways of thinking and acting.  &nbsp;  This course is not just another course on marketing! Nor is it about anecdotes on cultural differences.  Objectives  Our objectives are clear