TitreCours: Managing the global knowledge company
DescriptionCours: The increasing importance of knowledge in society is echoed around the world by a growing number of influential authors from various disciplines. For firms, the growing importance of knowledge as a key strategic resource implies that we are entering a new era, where competitive advantages have to be fought over again and again through constant innovation and creation of new products and new processes. Once based on standardisation of production and cost reduction, the economy has shifted thanks to technological developments and globalization. At every level, today's organizations are increasingly driven by innovation and dynamics of creation.  &nbsp;  Markets and competition are becoming global in real-time. Organizational processes are reconsidered with a strong need to balance people and systems. In this regards, business culture is evolving towards new original models that need to be analyzed, acknowledged as best practices or simple sources for reflection and inspiration and, of course, criticized. The all-encompassing effects of placing knowledge at the core of the development of firms, leads to the concept of "the global knowledge company", which implies radical transformations in the ways to manage companies in a global knowledge based context.  &nbsp;  The primary thrust of this course is to look at the management of a global knowledge company through a variety of lenses. It starts out by focusing on the main basic concepts. This is followed by analysing the consequences for all the classical functions of the firm of the shift towards a global knowledge company. Examples from actual global knowledge companies (such as Renault-Nissan, IBM, CISCO, Sony-Ericsson, Daimler-Chrysler, etc..) will support the analysis.&nbsp;  &nbsp;  Objectives  The aim of the lecture is to investigate some of the significant traits of the global knowledge based company:  &nbsp;   Redefinition of the strategy of the firm based on the identification of global core competences;  Increasing importance of the activities of conception based on the integration of dispersed intensive knowledge activities;  Redefinition of commercial and financial markets through swift exchange of data, real-time quotation and derivatives;  Increasing importance of "communities" viewed as informal groups of production and accumulation of knowledge within the firm, and between firms, that contribute to the development of knowledge. This includes in particular virtual teams and networks;  Dematerialization of products, easy access to product prices, quality evaluation and comparison, e-commerce. Just-in-time production, zero-stock processes, real-time monitoring;  Cheaper product development through computer-assisted design and simulation; easy knowledge archiving and sharing for managers and employees; E-learning, E-training;  Need to articulate different cultures within a given global company;  Management of complex alliances, of new types of relationship with universities and public research centers.  &nbsp;  It is expected that by the end of the course, students will be able to undertake a multi-level analysis of the strategy of a global knowledge company. By their personal work, they will have also acquired specific knowledge of the experience on various firms and industries in this domain.  &nbsp;  Learning Strategy Each lecture will consist of a brief theoretical introduction, followed by an interactive discussion based on a series of articles and case studies. Students will be provided reading materials in advance. Active class participation is thus necessary from all students. Students will also have to work on an individual project, and a group project.  &nbsp;  Assignments &amp; exams &nbsp;  Group Project (30%)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Group project: the group project consists of a written report which the group will orally present to the class the last week of the course. The report should focus on a global major alliance or merger (Renault-Nissan, Daimler-Chrysler, Sony-Ericsson, etc.) and detailed the motives of the alliance, the ways knowledge is managed between the different companies, locations, and cultures.&nbsp; The report should not be more than a 20 double-spaced pages plus exhibits, footnotes, and references. The report is due on (to be confirmed).  &nbsp;  Class presentation of group project (10%)&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;  Individual Project (50%) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Individual project should focus on the case of a global knowledge firm, and analyse a particular aspect of the management of knowledge of this company, in the perspective of the course. (It could be the way to deal with suppliers, the management of property rights, the management of R7D activities, etc). Each individual project should incorporate a brief review of the literature on the particular issue of knowledge which has been selected.&nbsp;Individuals projects are due on (tobe confirmed).  &nbsp;  Class participation (10%) &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;  &nbsp;
