TitreCours: Business Strategies for Emerging Markets
DescriptionCours: Most business leaders are well aware of the unbounded opportunities afforded by entering emerging markets. International expansion promises access to growing foreign markets, efficiencies from operating and selling on a global scale, and the ability to better serve customers that are increasingly global in scope. Besides opportunities, however, international expansion into emerging markets also provides distinct challenges. Companies that seek opportunities in emerging markets find their actions hindered by an array of social, political and cultural factors that differ greatly among countries. Understanding these risks and incorporating them into decision-making about international growth is essential for companies to effectively expand abroad. This goal of this course to equip future business leaders with a basic set of tools to identify, assess and manage the risks of doing business in emerging markets from the viewpoint of potential investors and multinational firms. Specifically, we will focus on the difficulties associated with evaluating the desirability of an emerging market, the risks involved with offshoring value chain activities to this market, and the business strategies that multinationals can adopt to deal with these risks.  OBJECTIVES: The goal of this course is to equip future business leaders with a basic set of tools to identify, assess and manage the risks of entering and doing business in emerging markets. Specifically, we will focus on the difficulties associated with evaluating the desirability of an emerging market, the risks involved with offshoring value chain activities to this market, and the business strategies that multinationals can adopt to deal with these risks. It is expected that by the end of the course, students will be able to use the set of tools to create an effective business plan for entering and doing business in an emerging market.  &nbsp;  LEARNING STRATEGY: The course will be a combination of interactive lectures, case studies and student presentations. Students are responsible for reading all required materials before class to be ready to ask questions and discuss the readings. Students are strongly encouraged to freely express&nbsp;themselves during the lecture and ask relevant questions in class, after class, during office hours, or via e-mail. Students will also have to work on a group project and give a group presentation.  &nbsp;  EVALUATION : &nbsp; Students are evaluated on their class participation, their business plan and their final presentation. All must be conducted at the dates and times given in the schedule. Except for medical emergency, makeup will not be allowed. The following breakdown of the grades will be used:  Class participation &nbsp;&nbsp;15% Individual Presentation&nbsp;30% Team Business Plan&nbsp;40% Final Exam&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp;15%
