TitreCours: Risk Management in the Financial Sector
DescriptionCours: In this course, our aim is to learn the quantitative framework used in the financial industry (banks, money management, risk management) to estimate and control for risk in investments. Risk is a statistical concept, so we will first review the properties of financial asset returns, as well as rigorously cover the quantitative portfolio framework that establishes the relationship between risk and return. We will define systematic risk. We will then see how this is all affected by estimation risk in both the mean and the variance. By the force of regulation, the fundamental tool in Market Risk Management is Value-at-Risk (VAR). So we will spend a major part of the course studying its implementation, strenghts and shortcomings. The third main topic in market risk management will be the modeling of volatility. We will study JP Morgan's RISK METRICS, and the more modern GARCH models now widely used to forecast time varying volatility. We will see how these models result in very different VAR computations. If time allows, we will study swaps, some of the most common tools for managing Risk in the fixed income and currency domains, and finally we will cover the issued of Credit risk and review the competing techniques for credit risk assessment.  &nbsp;  The course does not address the management of risk in the non-financial corporation and related topics such as how risk management may or may not add value to the firm. Another course, 53-240, does this. Due to the short time (6 weeks) and the quantitative intensity of the tools routinely used in the industry for risk forecasting and control, the course does not spend time on descriptive institutional issues. These easy to read topics will be referenced for background reading. The course will not address interest and reinvestment risks in the fixed income market. These topics, as well as duration and convexity are covered in 52-262, the Fixed Income course which students should have taken. Students are also strongly encouraged to take the Financial Derivatives course 53-265 or 53-215 which studies the&nbsp;used of forward contracts, swaps and the greeks for hedging risk.
