TitreCours: Conflict Management
DescriptionCours: Course overview :  &nbsp;  Conflicts are an integral part as well as a consequence of living in society. Whether in our professional, family or social environments, we are likely to face numerous conflicts, some having happy endings while others may be potentially disastrous to us. Not acknowledging the pervasiveness of conflicts in our daily lives is refusing to face facts and the reality of "living" in organizations.  &nbsp;  We can all bear witness to the fact that each conflict is unique. For example, the competition between managers in a business is always unique. Circumstances leading up to the situation, the individuals' history in handling conflict, the kind of&nbsp; support given to each manager, as well as their own personalities, create a context particular to the conflict. In the same way, tensions within a couple differ from one couple to the next. Emotions surrounding the conflict and the issues at stake create different situations. This is also the case in the business world. Each commercial dispute between organizations is unique in some way. Even though each situation is different, it is nonetheless possible to analyze them in order to discover common factors and to draw out lessons that are useful in preventing and dealing effectively with conflict. &nbsp;  While it is true that each conflict is unique, and that each possesses its own specific characteristics, there is a growing awareness that there are similarities between different kinds of conflictual situations. For example, the stages through which a conflict escalates are similar both in conflicts between individuals and in conflicts between nations. Frustration is as likely to contribute to a conflict between a supervisor and his employees, as it is to a conflict between a parent and child or a husband and wife. The role played by an outside mediator can be as crucial in a commercial dispute as it is in a matrimonial one. In fact, the study of conflict is a specific field of study that draws upon disciplines as diverse as psychology, industrial relations, law, management and economy. We now can refer to theories and models that are useful in diagnosing a conflict situation, analyzing its components, understanding its evolution, and helping to find ways to de-escalate the conflict, bring about agreements, and possibly effect not only a settlement of the issue, but a&nbsp; resolution of the underlying conflict.  Course orientation:  &nbsp;  This seminar is designed for students who, during their careers, have experienced various kinds of conflicts, and in particular, conflict within organizations. A conceptual and theoretical framework is provided for understanding and studying conflicts. This seminar also requires that each student engage in a personal reflection of their personal and individual experiences, in order to discuss and put into effect learning that will be useful in the pursuit of their careers as well as in their interpersonal relationships.  Courses objectives:  &nbsp;  At the end of this seminar, the participants will be able to:  &nbsp;   Understand what a conflict is.  Analyze different conflict situations.  Understand reactions to and strategies for adapting to a conflict.  Understand how each of us tends to behave in a conflict situation.  Develop successful intervention strategies.  Analyze the role and impact of the intervention of outside third parties in a conflict.
