TitreCours: Internationalization of the Firm
DescriptionCours: OBJECTIVES  &nbsp;  The international context in which we live has shaken up many management practices for companies of all sizes. Over the past 15 years, management vocabulary has also witnessed the emergence of a series of terms used in a variety of ways: internationalization, globalization, companies qualified as multinational, multidomestic, integrated, transnational, etc. Be they large or small companies or national or international institutions, it is important for them to undersatand the processes that facilitate the internationalization of business activities.  &nbsp;  International management student must come to terms with simultaneously understanding the development contexts of their activities and business developement strategies in this international context. This second required seminar for students in the International Business option was specifically designed to help them better analyze the major constraints, as well as their solutions, facing companies that operate in the international arena.  &nbsp;  Significance importance is thus accorded to studying the classic solutions and basic configurations that multinationals have developed over the years to ensure their growth: this is the best way to understand the challenges facing smaller companies that have to internationalize in order to survive and to live side by side with large companies operating at the transnational scale.  &nbsp;  The seminar is divided into four parts:  &nbsp;   The international arena and its actors  Theories of corporate internationalization  Corporate internationalization strategies and structures  Prospects and conclusion  &nbsp;  Following a review of the main economic, political and administrative theories related to corporate internationalization, students are asked to gradually construct various grids for evaluating globalization and domestic adjustment dynamics. Students will learn how to analyze the management problems of complex companies to better identify the nature of the problems and the available implementation solutions for ensuring healthy growth.  &nbsp;  TEACHING APPROACH  &nbsp;  Like an Master's seminar, this course requires regular preparation of the readings and openexchanges with other students and the professor. These are the key conditions for developing the expected degree of sophistication required for a Master's level course. Not all the readings indicated in the bibliogrpahy are required. The professor may prioritize or share core readings among the students. Students wishing to delve further into the subject matter are free to explore complementary references either during the course or at a later time for their thesis.  &nbsp;  The participants will be invited to balance two perspectives in their thinking: that of a director who needs to understand the company's overall functioning; and that of analysts mandated by the directors to explain the phenomena with which they must come to terms.  &nbsp;  EVALUATION  &nbsp;   Individual Essay (25 %)  Contribution to the discussion&nbsp;(25 %)  Case Study (25 %)  Final Exam (25 %)
