TitreCours: Risk in Financial Econometrics: Methodology
DescriptionCours: Risk, its modelization, estimation and forecast, is at the core of research in financial econometrics. Risk (aka volatility) forecasts are direct inputs to portfolio optimization and risk management. Risk is the central input to asset pricing theories which relate it to models of expected returns. In turn, these models, together with risk estimates are used to evaluate the performance of risk managers.  &nbsp;  &nbsp;80-221-03 studies the modern financial econometric methodologies used in risk estimation and management. The topics include the following. We study Bayesian techniques, more and more frequently used in financial econometrics, and especially portfolio theory. We review competing models of univariate and multivariate time varying volatility, such as GARCH and regime switching. For large covariance matrices, factor models, and the modelization of time varying factor loadings (betas) are given special attention. Kalman filter and earlier methods of volatility estimation are introduced and evaluated. Modern Markov chain Monte Carlo methods are used to estimate models of stochastic volatility. We discuss the effect of these competing models on the formulation of value-at-risk and the design of hedge portfolios. We survey the current literature on performance evaluation, paying special attention to the sensitivity of results to the risk model used.&nbsp; All these topics are studied through a combination of formal lecture notes and recent research articles.  &nbsp;  &nbsp;After the course, students should be able to implement the methods studied and critically read the current and forthcoming literature in the field. While this is a research course designed for doctoral students, motivated master's students with the required background are welcomed.  &nbsp;  &nbsp;The course complements 80-208-96 "L'incertain et l'information" which studies risk from a financial theory perspective. The course does not address in details risk management within the context of option pricing models. These topics are covered in other courses offered in the joint program. Note also that, for a well-rounded training in financial econometrics, the course complements but does not substitute to a standard course of financial econometrics.
