TitreCours: Reading
DescriptionCours: This seminar is intended for doctoral students in the field of strategy who are interested in improving their research skills. It builds on the knowledge developed in the Phase 1 methodology course and complements a number of theoretically oriented seminars currently offered (e.g., Francine Seguin's course on "La formation des strategies"). The title of the course expresses its three main objectives and components which are summarized below :  &nbsp;   Reading : At the end of the seminar, students should be able to competently evaluate research articles in strategic management that use a wide range of methodological approaches. To achieve this, the seminar will be structured to incorporate readings using a different methodological approach at each session (e.g., questionnaires, secondary data bases, typological analysis, experiments, ethnography, histories, case studies, etc.). Participants will also be required to give their names to the organizers of the ASAC Conference, the annual AIMS conference or the BPS Division Program of the Academy of Management in order to obtain some real experience in reviewing articles during the course of the seminar.  Doing : At the end of the seminar, participants should have a practical feel for the requirements of different types of methods in strategy through the participation in certain mini-exercises that will be presented to other members of the class. These may include documentary search, data collection, data base construction and qualitative and quantitative data analysis.  Publishing : At the end of the seminar, students should have greater awareness of the requirements for publishing articles in various types of outlets in the strategic management field. Most doctoral students plan to embark on an academic career after graduating. In the current tight job market, students who have succeeded in publishing their work will have an advantage. Part of the seminar will therefore be devoted to examining the various journals in the field and discussing the publication process. During the seminar, all students will be asked to submit an article (as single author or as co-author) based on their previous or current work in the doctoral program. This submission could be to a journal or to a conference (ASAC, Academy of Management, AIMS, SMS). Students will be encouraged to collaborate with others participating in the seminar (co-signing articles where appropriate) in order to improve the quality of their contributions. Time will be allowed to discuss evolving submissions.
